---
id: 704
title: API Month
date: 2015-11-30T12:08:37+00:00
author: gregario
layout: post
guid: http://thebedlab.com/?p=704
permalink: /2015/11/30/api-month/
image: /wp-content/uploads/2015/11/API.png
categories:
  - Projects
tags:
  - API
  - IoT
---
I do a lot of tinkering with API&#8217;s for work. They make operating with other people&#8217;s systems super simple and for IoT, an open API is often touted as an easy way for third parties to use your data for monitization purposes, like Intel&#8217;s Mashery, or as a public service with TFL (transport for London).

**I just threw out a lot of acronyms so very quickly, what are API&#8217;s?**
  
Application Programming Interfaces are a way of accessing or controlling a third party system with a well documented set of commands. A good programmer builds in such capabilities into their product so it can be used easily by others wanting to implement/build upon their work. A good example of this is Google Maps API was used to build Citymapper, a fantastic mapping service that is now in dozens of cities around the world.  It takes google&#8217;s data and mushes it together (the technical term would be data fusion but I prefer &#8220;mushes together&#8221;) with other local data sources for traffic/transport/weather to make a better mapping service.

**And what is IoT?**
  
IoT is the Internet of Things, its so hot right now&#8230; Simply, its about making dumb objects smart. Fridge becomes Smart Fridge. To become smart it needs to sense its environment in order to make its own decisions. Sensing the environment creates a bunch of data about said environment. API&#8217;s let you easily access said data.

Anywho, I just thought that it would be a cool idea to have an API month. Every day I will create a simple app to do something using an API at its core. It will definitely be simple and most probably be written in python. It may have a physical implementation depending on how busy I am but it will definitely pull some data from a service for some silly/informative/instructional purpose.

Tomorrow will be day one. I&#8217;m going to start with an easy one. I decide each morning if I should cycle or take the train to work in London. The train is super variable every as I have to go train to tube to another tube to get to work. If any of them are down or have delays its takes forever. So I thought I could write a script that automatically check to see how long my commute will be.